Release notes for 1.16.0 (#214)
replicatedhq/kots.io: content/release-notes/1.16.0.md

---
date: 2020-06-01T08:00:00-07:00
linktitle: "1.16.0"
title: "1.16.0"
kubernetes: "1.16, 1.17, and 1.18"
---

{{<features>}}

> * Support for HTTP_PROXY and NO_PROXY environment variables.

Reviewer: Where are these environment variables supported? Is this for embedded cluster installations? 

If so: 
```suggestion
* Support for HTTP_PROXY and NO_PROXY environment variables in embedded cluster installations.
```

Reviewer 2: unless it also works in existing cluster installs

Reviewer 3: You can add these to the kotsadm and kotsadm-api deployments. Kurl will add them there automatically if it's configured with a proxy.

* CronJobs now support private images.

> * Gitops cluster tracers

Reviewer: I don't understand these two above. The first seems customer-impacting (is it a bug?), the latter seems like it's technical and maybe can be removed?

Reviewer 4: The "gitops cluster tracers" should be included as a change, but explained better...  @salahalsaleh will you take a pass at explaining the change here (... added annotations to ...)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Gitops cluster tracers - added the app slug and sequence as annotations to the application pods
```

Reviewer 4: @salahalsaleh how about:

* Added KOTS metadata to all application manifests. A unique identifier for the local application and the version sequence will be injected as annotations to all deployed manifests.

> * Scheduled update checks

Reviewer: At what interval are these checks performed by default? 

```suggestion
* Update checks within the Admin Console occur at periodic intervals and may be scheduled. 
```

Reviewer 5: How about:

```suggestion
* Update checks within the Admin Console occur at periodic intervals (every 4 hours by default), and can be configured.
```

> * Support for custom redactors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Support for [custom redactors](https://troubleshoot.sh/reference/redactors/overview/) 
```

Reviewer 4: This is not a 1.16 feature, @laverya this was released in 1.15 IIRC?

Reviewer 4: @divolgin let's remove this bullet

{{</features>}}

{{<changes>}}

> * Velero storage credentials will now be validated on save.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Snapshot storage configuration is now validated on save.
```

* Updated troubleshoot dependency to v0.9.36
* Helm 3 support
* ConfigItem's `when` can now be a boolean
* Namespaces will be applied before the rest of the application YAML.

> * Velero and Restic information is included in support bundles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Additional snapshot information from Velero and Restic is now included in support bundles
```

{{</changes>}}

{{<fixes>}}

> * Fixed a bug that could cause `LocalImageName` and `LocalRegistryImagePullSecret` to panic.

Reviewer: What happens when a panic occurs? Is this the following? 
```suggestion
* Fixed issue where Admin Console crashes when using `LocalImageName` and `LocalRegistryImagePullSecret`.
```

> * Snapshots page will show a message when connection to the API is lost.

Reviewer: I understand the fix, but what happened when the connection was lost?

* Fixed a bug that would cause orphaned pods to be left on the system when jobs are deleted.

> * Fixed a bug that could cause a mismatch between TLS cert and key when using `TLSCert` and `TLSKey` template functions

Reviewer: I wouldn't call this a bug fix. Instead, I see this as a consistency improvement (that also breaks compatibility).

Author: it's a backwards compatible change

> * Added scrolling on airgap upload progress page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Airgap upload progress may be cropped without the ability to scroll in some situations. Fixed by adding the ability to scroll on this page.
```

> * Fixed a bug that allowed installing application with invalid YAML.

Reviewer: What happened when you installed with invalid YAML?

Reviewer 6: How about `Warnings will now be visible in the browser admin console when installing an application with invalid YAML`?

Reviewer 6: We should remove this. There is no change for this release

> * Fixed a bug that allowed installing application with invalid YAML.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Warnings will now be visible on the Version History page in the Admin Console when installing an application with invalid YAML
```

> * Fixed a bug that could cause operator to not bee deployed, resulting in applications being stuck in `Deploying` state indefinitely.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Fixed a bug that could cause operator to not be deployed, resulting in applications being stuck in `Deploying` state indefinitely.
```
